More than a third of Gen Zers know someone who uses gender-neutral pronouns. But the binary view of gender is still deeply ingrained in our society. For this episode of Tilted, we’re taking a close look at what it would mean to really break the gender mold. We talk to two amazing non-binary artists—Joey Soloway, creator of the hit TV series Transparent, and Jacob Tobia, actor, producer, and author of the memoir Sissy: A Coming-of-Gender Story—about their personal journeys with their gender identities and what we can all do to be more open and inclusive.
Joey Soloway is an American television creator, showrunner, director, and writer. They are best known for creating, writing, executive producing, and directing the Amazon original series Transparent, for which they won two Emmys. They are also the author of two books, Tiny Ladies in Shiny Pants: Based on a True Story and She Wants It: Desire, Power and Toppling the Patriarchy.
Jacob Tobia is an actor, writer, producer, author of the national bestselling memoir Sissy: A Coming-of-Gender Story, and member of the Forbes 30 Under 30 and the OUT 100. From interviewing former U.S. presidents to giving Trevor Noah an on-air makeover on The Daily Show, Jacob helps others embrace the full complexity of gender and own their truth, even when that truth is messy as hell.
Binary thinking isn’t limited to gender. We have a tendency to sort things into only two categories, or to see only two options—and pushing ourselves to break out of binary thinking can open up new possibilities.
We often assume we know someone’s gender before we even talk to them (for example, a waiter greeting a group of “ladies” in a restaurant). There’s almost always a gender-neutral alternative to gendered greetings—usually, it’s as simple as just saying hello.
Even for people who identify as cisgender, gender is fluid and complex. We all express and experience our gender in different ways, and for most of us, some aspect of our gender identity goes against the binary norm.
